---
title: "Coupling Mechanisms and Threshold Calculations for Forest Improvement/Degradation and Carbon-Water Use Efficiency in Northeast Asia"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: 
venue: "The 3rd National College Students’ Ecological Environment Management Research and Innovation Meeting"
date: 2025-09-13
location: "Nyingchi, China"
---

Carbon use efficiency (CUE) and water use efficiency (WUE) are key parameters of terrestrial carbon-water cycling that strongly influence forest degradation and improvement. However, the interactions and regulatory thresholds between forest degradation/improvement and trajectories of carbon-water use efficiencies remain poorly understood. Focusing on the temperate-boreal transition zone of Northeast Asia, this study constructed an analytical framework integrating trend analysis, coupling assessment, and ROC-based threshold identification to examine relationships between forest degradation/improvement and the long-term evolution of carbon-water use efficiencies between 2001 and 2021. The results showed that CUE in Northeast Asia exhibited a declining trend, while WUE showed an increasing trend, with 31.08% and 50.78% of the forest area experiencing significant increases, respectively. The coupling coordination degrees between forest degradation/improvement and carbon-water use efficiencies were 0.711 and 0.663, indicating moderate coordination, although trade-offs persisted. When the CUE trend exceeded 0.0005 and the WUE trend surpassed -0.005, forests shifted toward improvement. Approximately 51.54% of improved forests were driven by WUE increases, while 21.11% of the region showed degradation risks. This study provides an integrated understanding of how CUE and WUE dynamics relate to forest ecosystem degradation and improvement, offering carbon-water efficiencies-based evidence for identifying areas at risk of forest decline.

Manuscript have been revision stage in Journal of Environmental Management, I wish it smoothly~ 
 
